I'm Craig Keithley.
I'm the Security and
Cryptography Technology Manager.
I have another role,
which is also USB and
FireWire Technology Manager.
So if you've seen me in the
USB and FireWire sessions,
I do that too.
And there's actually a
little bit of an overlap.
There's a number of security
dongles that are USB-based.
So I take my skills from USB and
I apply them to those as well.
Today we're going to be talking
about security in Mac OS X from a
high-level kind of point of view.
We'll be talking about the new
features that have been added.
One of the things I'm really
pleased to be able to say is
that starting with 10.0.3,
we now have PCSE, or Smart Card Support,
built into the operating system.
So without much further ado,
I'll bring up John Hurley,
who will give you the
presentation on Security Overview.
Thanks.
Okay, good morning everyone.
Good to have you all here.
I'm going to try and give you
an overview of the new security
features that we put into OS X.
We've been really excited
to be able to work with X.
It's given us a lot of new possibilities.
I mean, really the chance to actually
start working towards a secure OS.
So that's been great for us to work on.
We have a lot of developer-related
features as well,
so I'll try and indicate some of those.
And we have sessions going
on the rest of the week.
And we're going to start today as
well with some of these things.
I guess one of our biggest...
The idea behind the messages or design
goals really is that we're trying to
make the security in OS X configurable.
So the default out-of-the-box thing
that goes to the home user or whatever
is going to have one configuration.
And ideally they won't even really
think for two seconds about security.
It should just kind of
be in the background.
But we want to be able to enable
all these other markets that
really are interested in security
and see Mac OS X as a great
platform to implement that on.
OK, so I'll talk about our
architecture for data security.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, so some of the opportunities
that we've been able to really
leverage on with OS X that we
never had available to us before.
Probably the biggest thing
maybe is protected memory.
We can have memory that's
in a particular process and,
you know, unless you have root access,
you can't actually see that memory.
You can't really get to it.
So we have, for example,
we have a process called
the security server,
which contains the keys as they're used.
And being able to leverage
that is really great.
It gives us a good chance
to make things more secure.
Being able to take advantage
of the multitasking stuff
means we can do things,
we don't have to worry about
being preempted or worrying about
other processes that need to run.
One really big advantage is that we
have this whole BSD infrastructure
that we can build on.
We can do security work
that's been done on standard,
you know, Unix level security.
And wherever appropriate,
we've taken advantage of that.
Maybe one of the biggest things is that
we've been able to have a fresh start.
Of course, Classic still supports
the OS 9 environment,
but being able to move to this
completely different operating
system meant that we could kind
of shake things up a little bit.
And some of the things that had
kind of gelled over the years,
we were able to get in at the
beginning and start really implementing
security from the beginning.
Okay, now the last bullet here
is the announcement.
And this is really,
we've been wanting to do this
for a really long time and we
finally pulled it all together.
So the announcement is that
we're making most of our data
security components open source.
So they will be available.
We're really happy about it because
it just gives us so many advantages.
One of the things with
security is peer review.
You can't do security through obscurity.
You have to have people being able to
look at the code and try and find holes.
So it's great that we're able to do this.
We've open sourced pretty much
everything that makes sense
from a Darwin perspective.
So the idea is that if you
have your Darwin system,
you can compile that.
These are all the components
that you could compile in.
and get working without--
it doesn't have,
say, the high level UI components,
but all the low level stuff,
all the cryptography,
the CDSA plug-in modules-- actually the
next slide sort of talks about that.
It makes it a little bit easier
for us to do export compliance.
And the last point is really important.
We really value your contributions.
I mean,
the open source community has been great
in looking over things and providing
suggestions and code and whatever.
So we're really looking
forward to getting that input
from all of you out there.
So in more detail,
the things that we're making open source,
the security.framework,
all the subprojects of that,
so the authorization subframework,
secure transport,
which is our SSL implementation
that ties into CDSA and all that,
so that's in there.
Keychain,
not the highest level APIs because
those are actually in Carbon,
so that's not open source,
but you can do all the Keychain
functionality with these lower level
APIs and the code for security server.
All of the plug-in modules for CDSA,
so the data library and
cryptographic service provider.
There's some ASN1 code.
There's a lot of good utility code.
There's a lot of really,
really good stuff in there,
so we're really excited to be
able to make that available.
I'll just have to mention what
the web page is because this
just went live last night,
so of course it didn't
make it on the slides,
but if you go to
www.opensource.apple.com,
you can find the little
blurb on security,
and that tells you where you can
get the source from and all that.
Okay, so talking just briefly
about the Keychain,
this is a feature that a lot of you
will be familiar with from OS 9.
A lot of the look and feel of it is
very much the same as it was on 9.
I think the biggest thing
to realize is that on OS X,
every single user has a Keychain.
So you can pretty much count on that.
I mean, even on 9,
if they didn't have one and you used it,
it would come up and give
them the dialog to create one.
But on 10, when they log in,
they have a default Keychain that's
created with their login password.
And all the system services use
that to store their passwords.
So, for example, mail or... or, um, um,
I can't think of the other ones now,
but anyway, with iTools and whatever.
So all those passwords are
stored in the user's keychain.
And we've actually done a really good
job of kind of making that transparent.
So you log in.
By default, it's unlocked throughout the
whole time that you are logged in.
But of course,
you can change that setting so that
it automatically locks or whatever.
The idea is to make it as simple as
possible kind of for the average user.
But if you're more security conscious,
you can do things like
Make it lock more frequently.
The biggest message that I have
to say about that-- and of course,
Ken will go into real
detail about how to use it.
Biggest message I have is if you are
saving-- if you need to save a password,
use the keychain to do it.
It's really, really easy.
You only need basically two calls.
You find it to see if it's there,
and if it's not there already,
you can add it.
That's it.
And it's a very,
very small amount of code.
It will save you perhaps some
embarrassment if you didn't
quite implement it right.
I mean,
we've gone to a lot of trouble to make
sure that the keychain file is protected,
and applications that are not
allowed to use a particular
password will either warn the user
or prevent them from doing so.
So we put in a lot of work.
It's easy for you to use it.
So that's my big message to you,
is just use it.
If you have passwords, store them there.
As I said,
it's mostly transparent to the users.
We've really changed a lot since OS 9.
Probably a lot of you are
familiar with the old rogue app
alert that would pop up a lot.
But we've managed to-- because
of the capabilities of OS 10,
we've finally been able to do
that kind of the right way.
And so the rogue app alert
just doesn't show up.
It really only shows up
when it's supposed to.
And it's an API that's
available through Carbon.
Or you can now also call
these lower level APIs that
are part of the open source.
Okay, a completely new API that we've
introduced on X is the Authorization API.
And I think right after this session,
Michael Brower is doing a
complete walkthrough of all
the API calls and all that.
But I did want to spend some time
here just so that people at least
understand why we did that and why it
might be worth your while to go to the
next session to hear more about it.
One thing we realized looking at, well,
even on 9, but particularly on 10,
there are a lot of places
where the user needs to,
say, enter their admin
password to do something.
So we've kind of...
So, I've locked it down a little bit
so that you can't accidentally
make a mistake or whatever.
But initially,
Different groups at Apple were
kind of doing it a different way,
and they would check it here,
and there was no real central way.
So one thing we did was we kind of
went around to all the groups and said,
okay,
let's funnel through this one bottleneck,
and with the idea that for any
given operation that you're doing,
you can basically find out from
the user or find out from some
settings that maybe the administrator
or the machine has configured,
you can find out whether they are allowed
to do that operation at that time.
And bottlenecking it through one
spot allows us to do a lot of
great things like being able to,
say, cache the password for five
minutes or something like that.
It just kind of streamlines it a
little bit for the user so they're not
typing this password in all the time.
So from a really high level,
the Authorization API is basically
trying to answer a yes-no question.
Given an operation,
am I allowed to do it right now?
I guess the really interesting part
comes through maybe the side effects,
which is, okay,
how do you figure out whether they
are allowed to do that or not?
And one of the basic side effects that
can happen there is it may call off to
these plugin modules that we have to
do different types of authentication.
So,
Let's take the really,
really simple example of if
you have the Prefs panel,
you have the little lock.
You just want to know whether
you are allowed to turn on
your screensaver or something.
If you click on that lock,
it might do a very simple
authentication thing.
It might say, oh,
is this user the administrator of that
machine and does the password match?
Okay, you're allowed to do it.
But through this API,
we've set it up so that you can
plug in different modules and those
could get evaluated and return,
you know, ask for different types of
authentication from the user.
For example,
as Craig mentioned with the PCSC stuff,
now we can do smart card stuff.
So you could be getting information off a
smart card or voice print or fingerprint,
whatever.
There are a lot of different
things that you can do.
And it's set up so that you can
do a lot of different things.
And it's set up so that you can chain
a whole bunch of these together and
get answers from each one of them.
I guess one other thing that I want
to point out is that it's not,
this is not,
it does not give you the ability
to do a particular operation.
It's kind of assumed that it's
being called from a trusted
app that could do it anyway.
So it's really, in a way,
it's really a convenience or a
service to the user that you are
asking the user whether or not
you're allowed to do this operation.
Because, of course,
if it wasn't a trusted process,
they could just, well,
not call the API and just bypass
all that authentication stuff.
So that's something to keep in mind,
that that's,
it's not really providing the capability.
And as Michael will say later on,
you'll end up needing to have
probably a set UID root tool or
something like that that can do,
if that's what would be
required for the operation.
The authentication modules could
do a couple different things.
They might figure out who you are.
So, for example,
look you up in some directory services
database or net info or whatever.
Or it could be looking at, say,
a fingerprint reader.
The three things I list there are kind
of the security questions that you
want to find out about authentication.
Could be who you are.
So, that's actually something
like a fingerprint.
What you know would be like a
password and what you have might
be something like a smart card.
So,
if you have all three of those together,
then you've really added
some security to the system.
One other thing with these authentication
modules is that they may generate
some sideband information that's
needed either for the next module
down the line or for the ultimate
service that may need something.
Like, for example,
let's say you're logging
in with Kerberos.
You need to know not only
username and password,
but you also need to know the realm.
So,
that would be... Those would be things
that would get passed along so that at
the end of the operation you would know
what you need to know to move forward.
And then the last point is,
in a lot of cases,
this operation might just succeed.
Like the answer to the question,
you know, can I do this operation?
The answer is always yes.
It never does anything,
never throws a dialogue,
never asks the user at all.
The point is that you can configure
it for these different operations.
So if you're in a more secure setup,
you could, you know, lock that down more.
So we're, you know,
we're moving towards getting
all that stuff working nicely.
Okay, so just an example of probably
maybe a typical operation you
might think of for authorization.
Let's say you're logging
into the console.
You could have several different steps
that you might have to go through.
So you might have to type in
your username and password.
The username, for example,
can go look off in a directory
somewhere and figure out where your
home directory is and all that.
The password, ideally you want to ask the
user for that because then
they can unlock the keychain.
You might have to insert a smart card or
fingerprint reader or voice recognition.
Some of the operations that
you might be able to do,
I mean logging in is an obvious one, but
Unlocking the screen saver.
You know, it would be nice to be able to
step up to your machine and as
you walk back to your office say,
hey, I'm back,
and have the screen saver just unlock
without having to type a password.
Playing a CD is something that
comes up a lot in K-12 market.
The teachers want to restrict
what CDs the kids can play.
So that's an operation that we can,
by calling the Authorization API,
you could set it up to configure
it so it could go off and look up
in a playlist whether or not it's
actually allowed to play that CD.
and Formatted Disk.
That's kind of a good one to turn
on for your kindergarten kids so
that they don't format your stuff.
Okay, so anyway,
there's a more detailed session
on that next after this.
CDSA is the foundation for
this security architecture
that I've been talking about.
The Keychain is based on it.
The secure transport stuff uses all that.
All the cryptography stuff
that we do goes through this.
It stands for
Common Data Security Architecture.
Originally it came from Intel,
but now it's an open group standard.
On OS 9 we implemented the
1.2 version of the standard.
We learned a lot from doing that
and contributed a lot to the
So that's what is in
OS X is the 2.0 standard.
I guess one of the biggest features that
stands out about CDSA is that it uses
plug-in modules to do a lot of the work.
So, for example,
the Data Library module or CSP,
Cryptographic Service Provider,
you can plug in,
you can write a module to do
different types of crypto.
Certificate Library and
Trust Policy module.
Here's kind of a really rough block
diagram of how these things are laid out.
Kind of the pieces in purple at
the bottom are the plug-in modules,
and the CSSM layer is the kind of guts
of it that loads the different modules
and helps them interact with each other.
The layers in red are just some of
the sort of middle layers that we've
written on top of the CDSA APIs.
CDSA is a pretty extensive standard.
I mean, the manual is about that thick,
you know, like 1,300 pages.
So there's tons and tons of APIs,
but we found that when
we were using them,
we kind of tended to
group them together and,
you know,
maybe use them in a particular way.
So a lot of the stuff that you
would see in... in Security Core,
for example, which you can see in
the open source archive,
those are collecting together
these CDSA functions.
Security HI is the user interface
stuff that you might see,
like the dialog that pops
up to enter your password.
Secure Transport is our
SSL implementation that uses
our certificate libraries
and things like that.
And then, you know,
you can write apps on top of that.
I guess the biggest point is that if
you're writing to the APIs on top,
even if the plugin stuff changes below,
your application isn't
going to have to change.
So you can really leverage as
people develop more stuff below.
Your app can just, you know,
if there's suddenly a
hardware crypto module,
then you could take advantage of that.
[Transcript missing]
So, the keychain is basically
the Apple file CSP DL.
So, it's a combination of cryptographic
service provider and data library module.
And that way,
when we write the keys out to the file,
we can do the encryption
at the same time.
We could have done it
as maybe separate ones,
but it just turned out
to be a separate module.
to be convenient to put it in one module.
Another example of a DL that we
don't have now but would be not too
hard to write would be an LDAP DL.
So you could store things,
particularly say certificates
or something like that,
you could store them in
a public LDAP directory.
Certificate Library Modules.
Roughly it just knows how to
parse a public key certificate.
So the one that we ship by default
does X.509 version 3 certificates.
For a particular field
in the certificate,
the layers up above can ask, okay,
what's the modification date on
this or who signed it or whatever,
and the certificate library knows where
in the certificate to grab that value.
It would be possible to write
one that would know how to
deal with a PGP certificate
or attribute certificates,
which contain,
it's basically a way to take a
bunch of attributes about something
and then sign it so that it's a
little bit more certified maybe.
Trust Policy Modules.
This is an interesting one because
I think this is one that a lot of
corporations or universities might
be interested in writing because
the standard one that we ship,
Basically says, okay,
given a certificate,
how do you know whether or
not the user trusts that?
And so the standard one
that we ship for X.509,
we look, given a certificate,
we see who signed it,
and then we see who signed that,
and finally we get down to a list
of trusted root certificates.
And if it matches one of
those root certificates,
then we say, okay, it's trusted.
But it could be that you don't
necessarily want to do it that way.
One example there is you
could do a web of trust.
So you could say, okay,
I'm only going to trust
it if my pal trusted it.
And so that would be a
different way to implement a TP.
Or you could go look it up
in a corporate database.
So there's a lot of different ways
that you can change how certificates
are trusted on the system.
by writing a trust policy module.
[Transcript missing]
I think the SDK is posted
on the security page,
so for actually developing it,
that's available there.
We wanted to make sure that it was
easy using this API to get to the
CDSA APIs and try and make it pretty
easy if you had an application that was
already using PCSC on another platform,
you'd at least be able to
bring over that portion of the
code pretty easily onto 10.
We tried really,
really hard to make it very easy to
write a driver for the different readers
and there are several manufacturers
that have already completed drivers
for different smart card readers.
And for different types of smart cards,
you can actually write a different
CSP to deal with to use the
cryptography that might be on the card.
Here's kind of a complicated diagram
with how this all fits together.
You can see down at the bottom that the
readers and the cards are down there.
The idea is basically that you have
the applications at the top and if
they're calling through these APIs,
they don't really need to
know any of the details.
I mean, PCSC can deal with,
it deals with all the
resource management.
So, for example, if you have a
If you're in a situation where
you have like 10 different readers
plugged in and they all have
different kinds of cards and whatever,
this sorts it all out.
It knows whether several
applications can talk to a particular
reader at once or whatever.
So all those details are
basically taken care of for you.
[Transcript missing]
This is an area, of course,
that a lot of you,
if you're familiar with Unix,
then you know a lot of these things,
security features that you can use.
Basically, OS X ships with most of
the services turned off.
So, you know, FTP and Telnet,
things like that.
The average user,
the average Macintosh customer, you know,
if they're not familiar with that,
it's safer to just leave it off.
If they find out,
or if they're interested,
they can go and re-enable that.
We turn off the root password by default,
but that can be re-enabled.
And I think that was one of
the very common questions.
People weren't complaining
that we had turned off root,
they just wanted to know how
to turn it back on again.
So there's a Tech Info library note on
that if you search the TIL database,
you can find that.
File permissions has been
one of the areas that's been
pretty tricky to figure out.
And I think roughly the basic goal
is we're trying to make sure that
it works the right way with OS 9.
And so a lot of those things are...
Maybe not set the way
that you're used to,
say, from another Unix system, but
and John Hurley.
They're set up to work,
to interoperate with
Classic and things like that.
I guess the biggest thing is there are a
lot of different books on Unix security,
and most of those things
apply on Mac OS X.
So I would say look to the resources
that you know from that area.
We try and keep things pretty much
standard if we can at that level.
And as we hook it more
up into the upper levels,
well, we try and keep the behavior pretty
much the same as you're used to.
I think they talked a little bit more
about this in the BSD session too.
So here are some of the resources
for these things that are available.
The security webpage at
developer.apple.com has some good
links off to our software and to some
other links that are interesting.
can find the specifications
for CDSA at the Open Group.
We also have a pointer there
on the security web page.
And as I mentioned,
the www.opensource.apple.com
has our source.
Oh, that's, sorry.
Again,
here's another thing that just came up,
so it's not on the slides,
but I'm glad I remembered
to talk about it.
We have posted a security webpage.
A lot of people had
kind of been wondering,
you know,
how we would deal with things like
cert advisories and just security
holes that might pop up in OS X.
So, sorry that this isn't on the slide,
but again, this page went live yesterday.
So, if you go to www.apple.com
slash support slash security.
and then security.html.
That has a whole page that is
designed for people that have,
they think they've found a security
problem with OS X or they may
need some security assistance.
And that page contains the resources
that kind of tell you how to
So, it's a central point for
kind of reporting problems.
We have a team within Apple,
so that stuff gets distributed, you know,
really immediately.
And we, depending,
it gets routed to a lot
of different groups.
Each group will kind of look at it
and determine if it's something that
is in their area of responsibility.
And we'll try and fix it
as quickly as possible.
We, of course,
have the software update mechanism,
so we have been able to actually already
release some fixes in each of the
software updates that's gone out so far.
I think we pretty much shipped
[Transcript missing]
Here are some of the related
sessions that I mentioned.
Right after this is the
Authorization API session.
At 2 o'clock is the
session on the Keychain,
learning how to use that.
Tomorrow afternoon,
there's a session on Kerberos.
We'll talk about what
we're doing with Kerberos.
And on Friday,
there's the feedback forum.
[Transcript missing]
I think you can also find
that on the web page.
If you have any questions,
particularly if you're interested in
developing security related products,
he can find all the
right resources for you.